Also it is very real that the yardstick standard for availability of networks to be delivered by the Network Operations Center was 99.999%. This was not a soft target. Performance reviews of NOC management were frequently based on hitting that target. Availability was the number one KPI for networks and NOCs were
tasked with restoring any outages so that network availability would be maintained. But early on in the then-named Network Management Forum (now the TeleManagement Forum), participants of the newly formed SLA group (though it was not called SLA back in 1994) realized that each of them had different ways of
computing that figure for availability. It took years to hammer this out to an agreement on what to count and how to calculate it. (For more details, see the current SLA Handbook Solution Suite Version 2.0) But in reality, every standards group, and even every industry, seems to have a different way of defining
availability. What-to-count as an outage becomes “key”. Wedge Greene has a personal experience with the traps lying in wait for those trying to measure and report on availability. Back in the early nineties when he was a signaling and routing specialist, but because he had software and systems experience, he was yanked out of his comfortable theoretical work and tasked with developing a system to report on the quality of the early frame relay network. A big requirement was to measure the availability of the network and produce one monthly number for availability. He was a data guy and trained as a scientist and engineer. So he set out to “measure” availability – directly measure availability. His team developed automated methods of pinging every network port and of correlating down and up link alarms; by merging these two methods (direct measured ping non-responses and interpolated differences in time between down link alert and uplink alert), an automated measure of network up time was generated. This was sent up the management chain every month. After a few months, down from the management chain came the request to generate this KPI weekly, next month it became a demand for daily data. Finally the newly appointed General Manager of the division paid a personal visit to Wedge. The GM needed to find out why the network was “so bad”. The automated network availability figures were much lower than five-nines. Five-nines availability was the corporate standard and the accounting people were “going to shut down the network if the quality did not immediately improve.” In the face of this terrible report card, the VP of Engineering was blaming the VP of Operations (“You cannot run a network or fix anything on time”) who was tossing the responsibility right back (“You provided us inferior equipment”). Furthermore the Voice Network division, using a different set of calculations, said their network met five-nines and this is what all the customers expect. “Your inferior data network is dragging us down.”